+++
title = "About Me"
date = 2023-11-19T01:48:25-08:00
draft = false
+++

Hi there! The first thing that people often learn about me is that I'm someone who loves to create and nurture.  At home, that means cooking, woodworking, and building Lego with my son.  As a software engineer, I love to build SaaS products (with a heavy focus on APIs), and build _up_ as the team around me through mentorship and sponsorship.


### A Brief? History

The tragectory of my career has taken me on a pretty interesting ride.  It starts in the earlist days of JavaScript, where I was writing Single Page Applications before jQuery was even a thing.  I soon joined a bespoke web agency as their one and only full stack developer where I created many custom, powerful sites from the ground up in the LAMP stack including a clothing ecommerce site, and a small social media platform.  In those days, all development was done from scratch since it was before the Cambrian explosion of web frameworks.

The mid point of my career came after a brief stint in games development.  I joined on with Nickelodeon to work on several games including the Neopets platform, and a browser-based MMORPG where I worked primarily on the server side in Java with a dash of UI work in C# and Unity. I learned a great deal from my experiences there ranging from operating within the already 10 year old legacy code of Neopets and its massive internationalization framework, to working at a scale of 16 million users and refactoring vendor-written code as we transitioned outsourced code to in-house with [MonkeyQuest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monkey_Quest).

After MonkeyQuest met an untimely demise, I left PHP and Java behind for a Python and Node stack as I went full remote and joined a startup called Omnivore in 2015.  When I started, there was maybe 3 other developers including the CTO.  The plan was that I would operate as a full-stack engineer initially and then transition to be the Frontend Lead as the team was built out.  Omnivore's technology was strong divided between an installable desktop component called the "agent," and a large cloud infrastructure including APIs, many queue processors, ETL pipelines, and other webserver all ment to support those agents.  Omnivore's leverage and value proposition meant that almost all new engineers joined the agent team.  So much so that after about 2 years, there was a decent sized team responsibile for the agent, and "Justin... who's responsibile for everything else" – as the CTO so plainly put in one of our all-hands meetings.

Eventually though, my production reached its scaling limits and engineers were finally hired to join me to form the Cloud Team in 2017.  By now though, the original plan had change and I was leading a small team of 2 other full-stack devs.  After building over 10 years of expertise in it, instead of being the Frontend Lead, I was actually moving away from it.

Eventually, Omnivore reached an inflection point and decided to branch out by launching a new product that would build upon all of our existing tech.  After 4 mounths of non-stop interviewing, my team had scaled from 3 to 7 engineers, we were all learning [Go](https://go.dev/), and using it to start a greenfield project called the Menu Management System, or MMS.  This is where I started learning how to manage people, but it would take me many more years to learn how to lead them.

Together, we got MMS from 0 to 1 – but it was **rough**.  If simultaneously being a new manager with little guidance, learning a new language while trying to teach it to others, onboarding 4 new engineers, and trying to rapidly build out a brand new product wasn't enough, other problems started to pop up.  While most of the team was committed to finding concensus and cranking things out, some had entrenched themselves in uncompromising opinions, and others had begun to show themselves as dead weight.  I tried to back up those stubborn engineers when they clashed with tech leadership, and I tried too long to try to help the under performers do work at a level they were clearly not capable of.  While I certainly made mistakes going through this manager's guantlet, I emerged on the other side of it scarred with wisdom, experience, and the know-how to navigate all kinds of conflicts.  We necessarily lost some people through the process, but more importantly I had earned the trust and respect of the team that remained.  That team ended up staying with me long after Omnivore's acquisition.

One of the things that got me us through those dark days was writing a technical vision.  Working with the CTO and Directory of Engineering, we hashed out a vision together that would provide clarity for the team that truly unlocked some hidden potential.  Over the next several weeks, I worked with my team to understand and tweak the vision with their feedback.  The vision turned out to be a force multiplier: common questions had answers and the team could use it to self-police themselves in code review by borrowing its authority.  The path was paved and everyone knew where we were going.

This all happened in the summer of 2019, which was just in the nick of time.  As the pandemic kicked into full gear, our existing agent customers started to "pause" or cancel their contracts. To survive the pandemic, MMS _had_ to grow to become Omnivore's new flagship product because it was actually uniquely positioned to help restaurants themselves stay alive through the pandemic.  We helped to save a lot of restaurants and the jobs they provide.

Throughout the whole MMS project, I wore many hats and was never able to be _just_ a manager.  I was not only the manager, but also an engineer writing massive amounts of code.  Moreover, about a year before Omnivore was acquired, we lost our product manage so I was also put on that hat for the entire remainder of my tenure there.  Doing it all was a powerful but draining experience.  I was overjoyed when news of Omnivore's acquisition by Olo was shared in 2022.  I didn't know what, but I knew something would change.
